." Man page for i3lock-fancy-c
.TH I3LOCK-FANCY-C 1 "2025-06-17" "i3lock-fancy-c 1.0"
.SH NAME
i3lock-fancy-c - optimized C++ wrapper around i3lock for a customizable lockscreen

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i3lock-fancy-c
\[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.i i3lock-fancy-c
captures the current desktop, applies a blur or pixelation effect, overlays a lock icon and a password prompt, then invokes \fBi3lock\fR with the resulting image as the lockscreen background.

It supports localized prompts based on the \fILANG\fR environment variable (e.g., \fIes\_\fR for Spanish).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Display this help message and exit.

.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fB--greyscale\fR
Convert the background image to greyscale instead of color.

.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--pixelate\fR
Pixelate the background instead of blurring. Faster but less smooth.

.TP
\fB-f \fIFONTNAME\fR, \fB--font \fIFONTNAME\fR
Use a custom font for the password prompt. Defaults to the system font if unspecified.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fILANG\fR
Determines the language for the prompt text. Recognized prefixes: \fIde\_\fR (German), \fIes\_\fR (Spanish), \fIfr\_\fR (French), \fIpl\_\fR (Polish). Defaults to English: "Type password to unlock".

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.i i3lock-fancy-c
requires:
.IP 4
\fBImageMagick\fR (for \fIimport\fR and \fIconvert\fR commands)
.IP 4
\fBi3lock\fR (for locking the screen)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fI0\fR
Success.

.TP
\fI>0\fR
An error occurred (e.g., screenshot failed, image processing error, or i3lock failed).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Blur the screen and lock (default):
.RS
.i
\$ i3lock-fancy-c
.RE

.TP
Pixelate and use custom font:
.RS
.i
\$ i3lock-fancy-c -p -f "Mononoki Nerd Font"
.RE

.TP
Lock with greyscale background:
.RS
.i
\$ i3lock-fancy-c --greyscale
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBi3lock\fR(1)

.SH AUTHORS
Written by JSP724.
